Omid Askari
+1 (805) 886 7101
6520 El Colegio Rd, Apt 2308, Santa Barbara, CA 93106.
omid55@cs.ucsb.edu
Github
LinkedIn
Objective
To obtain an intern position utilizing my strong programming background, knowledge of machine learning and also software
development experiences. Passionate to work in a team on challenging problems.
Education
Ph.D. - Computer Science (GPA: 4.0/4.0), UC Santa Barbara, California
M.Sc. - Computer Engineering (GPA: 4.0/4.0), Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran
B.Sc. - Software Engineering (GPA: 3.86/4.0), University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran
Expected: Sept 2020
Feb 2014
Jul 2011
Skills
Deep Learning, Machine Learning and Datamining: Big Data Analysis using Google TensorFlow, WEKA in
JAVA, Rapid Miner, Clementine, Theano, Caffee, and also fMRI & DTI brain image analysis using FSL and DPABI and
experienced programming with Spark in Hadoop.
Network Science: Stanford Network Analysis Project (SNAP), MATLAB BGL, Gephi, Pajek, NodeXL.
Optimization: MATLAB CVX, Mosek, Gurobi.
Multi Agent Development: Java Agent Development Framework (JADE), Repast Simphony.
Cloud and Parallel Servers: Google App Engine Programming, Oracle (Sun) Grid Engine.
Programming Languages: JAVA, C++, C#, MATLAB, C, Python, SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL, ASP, PHP, JSP, Prolog,
Ruby, Visual Basic, Pascal, R.
Development Software Packages: Microsoft .Net, Windows Presentation Framework (WPF), Windows Communi-
cation Foundation (WCF), Microsoft Entity Framework, JavaFX, Hibernate, Java Persistence, Java JFrame, Maven,
Swing, Applet, REST, JSON, JAX-RS, C++ Graphical Design with MFC, Qt, Oracle Development Kit, Oracle Form,
Android Programming.
Programming Paradigms: Object-Oriented Programming, Agent-Oriented Programming, Service-Oriented Programming.
Subversion Softwares: Git, TortoiseSVN.
Database Management Systems (DBMS): Oracle, Microsoft SQL(MSSQL), PostgreSQL, MySQL, Microsoft Access.
Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, Linux Server, Windows Server.
Work Experience
• Research Assistant
University of California at Santa Barbara, CA
Sept 2015 – Present
– Collaborating with a group of 18 researchers and PIs from different universities on a big data-driven project under
Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI) grant
– Implementing codes with C++, Python and MATLAB to analyze social datasets and gaining insights into the dynamics
of team formation, evolution and optimization both mathematically and experimentally
• Researcher & Software Architecture
Hekmat Iranian Bank, Tehran, Iran
Jan 2015 - Aug 2015
– Analyzed a database of 5 years transactions of half of million of customers to predict potential risks for bank
– Formed and managed a team of developers to build a software for computing liquidity risk, credit risk and clustering
customers to predict their behavior in terms of their requested loans
– Used Kernel density estimation and fuzzy c-means for clustering, different types of methods such as random forests and
decorate with j48 decision tree for classification, correlation-based feature selection methods, LLE and LDA method
– Implemented the software using JavaFX, WEKA, Hibernate, Persistence, Oracle Database (PL/SQL)
– Used OLAP data cube technology in order to cache required information for computing queries instantly in a large Oracle
data-warehouse
• Researcher
Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems, Empirical Inference Department, T ̈
uebingen, Germany
Sept 2013 - Jan 2014
– Worked on Memetracker network with 96 million nodes and Twitter with more than 476 million tweets, to mathematically
model information cascades
– Understood other developers’ C++ implemented codes and developed them to handle the proposed algorithm in C++
and MATLAB
– Developed a new type of Trie data structure for matching millions of strings over half of millions of tweet contents in a
very limited amount of time
– Developed Stanford Network Analysis Platform (SNAP) toolbox using C++ and learned how to execute parallel codes
efficiently on Oracle Grid Engine server
– Developed MATLAB codes to optimize a convex function using MATLAB CVX toolbox & Mosek.
• Intern
International Systems Engineering and Automation Company (IRISA) Company, Isfahan, Iran
Jun 2011 - Sept 2012
– Designed and developed a part of Oracle database-based Enterprise Resource Planning software. Utilized Java Applet,
Oracle Forms and PL/SQL Package Programming
– Also developed a plug-in that automated the query generation for mathematical formula computation using PL/SQL
development and Oracle Form graphical user• Database Consultant
Rena Technical Services Company, Karaj, Iran
– Read and understood an implemented Microsoft SQL Server 2000-based software
– Consulted the maintenance group for debugging an existing issue in the security of database
Jul 2011 - Oct 2011
Notable Projects
• Adaptive Multi Agent System Toolbox Git
Software Designer and Developer
2009 – 2011
– Learned agent-oriented programming and developed a distributed system with more than one million concurrent agents,
message passing ability and graphically representation of their movement and task handling
– Simulated a robocup rescue system and implemented a toolbox for attribute-based team cooperation organizational
modeling
– Used JADE for multi-thread programming, Swing, JFrame for graphical user interface and reporting service
• Software for Traffic Police Law Enforcement Device
Software Designer and Developer
2008 – 2009
– Implemented a driver and graphical user interface for the device with C#
 ̈
– This project won a silver medal in IENA, International Exhibition “ Ideas-Inventions-Novelties”, Nov 5-8, 2009, N URNBERG
Germany
– Also won silver medal in Geneva Inventions, Apr 21-25, 2010, Geneva, Switzerland
• Multi Agent System for City Traffic and Routing Simulation Git
Software Designer and Developer
2010 – 2011
– Designed and developed a parallel multi agent system software with JAVA, JFrame and JADE framework for modeling
a city traffic system
– Simulated cars, GPS property and intelligent traffic lights with an online graphical user interface exhibiting traffic flow
and applied various routing algorithms using knowledge from environment
• Real Estate Management Software Git
Software Designer and Developer
2009
– Developed in C# using Microsoft WPF, SQL Server 2008 database and Entity Framework
– Implemented an advanced online query generator to flexibly change the number of constraints in each query to efficiently
perform a deepening search in huge database of properties, lands and homes
• Service-Oriented Recommender System Software with Linked-Data Technology Git
Software Designer and Developer
2010
– Developed in C# using Microsoft WCF for service-oriented programming, Microsoft WPF
– Implemented a linked-data database using dotNetRDF and SPARQL
• Time Series Forecasting in Business Intelligence Software Git
Developer
2011
– Implemented a time series forecasting model with a hybrid model of SVM, ARMA, ARIMA and ANFIS
– Used C# and MATLAB COM library in order to execute efficient implemented neural network codes
Selected Publications
1. Inferring causal molecular networks: empirical assessment through a community-based effort,
Nature Methods, Feb 2016. Link Git
2. Optimal pinning controllability of complex networks: Dependence on network structure, Journal of Physical
Review E, (PRE), 2015. Link Git
3. Dynamics of Collective Performance in Collaboration Networks, accepted in XXXVI Sunbelt Conference, April
2016.
4. Influence Maximization of Informed Agents in Social Networks,, Journal of Applied Mathematics and Computation,
(AMC), 2015. Link Git
5. Large-scale Global Optimization through Consensus of Opinions Over Networks, Journal of the Complex Adaptive
Systems Modeling, Springer, 2013. Link Git
6. A Team-Based Organizational Model for Adaptive Multi Agent Systems, ICAART - Proceedings of the 3rd
International Conference on Agents and Artificial Intelligence, 2011. Link Git
Awards
Awarded 5 Years Fully-Funded Scholarship & Computer Science Fellowship in UC Santa Barbara, Sept 2015.
Ranked 1 st in Bio-Informatics HPN-DREAM Consortium Breast Cancer Network Inference Challenge, Feb 2014.
Awarded a Fully-Funded Research Scholarship of Max Planck Institute, T ̈
uebingen, Germany, Sept 2013.
Ranked 1 st in B.Sc. within a class of 47, Department of Computer Engineering, Jul 2011.
Ranked 4 th in M.Sc. within a class of 56, Department of Computer Engineering, Feb 2013.
Awarded Fellowship of Exceptional Talents for M.Sc. Program in Sharif University of Technology, Sept 2011.
Scientific Activities
Reviewer for: Journal of ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data — 2014 - Present
Reviewer for: Journal of Complex Networks, Oxford University Press — 2013 - Present
Founder of: Java Agent Development Framework (JADE) Facebook Page — 2010 - Present
Modified in: February 29, 2016
